You are watching and listening to
electronic defa. I am John Elmer. This
is the resistance report on day 930
of Israel's genocide in Gaza, day 55 of
the USIsraeli war on Iran and day 52 of
Hezbollah's defense of South Lebanon. I
am reporting this on the afternoon of
Thursday, April 23rd, 7 days after the
10-day ceasefire in Lebanon went into
effect. Um on the la on the Iran front,
Trump has extended unilaterally
apparently uh the ceasefire that uh
15-day ceasefire that expires is to
expire today. Um he said that he will
continue focusing on the blockade of the
straight of Hormuz for on that score.
There have been multiple boardings of
ships by the US and also by the IRGC
Navy. Um, so there's a bit of a standoff
in the straight of Hormuz with what is a
porous blockade. Ships are making it
through the blockade um and have been
over the last number of days, but the US
um and Iranians are picking off ships uh
during that blockade. Um so that
standoff continues. For their part, the
IRGC said that they are capable and
powerful and uh are at 100% readiness
with their fingers on the trigger and
have been ready for a resumption of the
war. But this week, we're going to focus
on Lebanon. Um everything that you are
going to see on this program, as always,
was released in the past week since you
last saw me. And with Hezbollah
operations, we're getting them about uh
a week or 10 days um late after the
operation took place based on
operational security, the distance
traveled in the area and we have been
following that throughout the war. So
let's take a look at the maps. Uh we'll
start off with this. This is the key
area of the battle space for uh the past
uh 40 plus days. Uh, Israel said that
they were going to take up to the Latani
River. They have not done that at all.
They are within a couple of kilometers
of the border. Um, they bragged this
week that they had destroyed in 5,500
targets hit, 4,600 air strikes and
almost 15,000 artillery strikes that
they had dropped 165 uh multi-story
family buildings. Um, Israel killed 200
uh 2294
uh Lebanese. 7544
have been wounded. Um, and the killing
has continued since the ceasefire has
went into effect as is always the case
with Israel. Um, Israel is trying to
achieve through negotiations at this
point what they have failed to achieve
on the battlefield. They want the
Lebanese armed forces to fight a civil
war in Lebanon against Hezbollah because
Israel has been unable to defeat them
despite telling us that they were
defeated uh last year. Uh clearly not
the case. We've seen Hezbollah come back
in this battle with an operational tempo
that has been unprecedented in the
history of the organization. Just during
the ceasefire alone, the National
Council for Scientific Research in
Lebanon documented 220
Israeli ceasefire violations just in the
first three days alone, including
artillery shelling, mining um and
explosive operations. Again, they're
trying to destroy houses. Um that is the
principal uh aim of this operation. They
Israelis have been very clear about it.
They want to turn uh the villages in
south Lebanon that you see along the
border there, Nakura, Vintage Bale,
Hiam, they want to turn those into uh
Beethanoon and Rafa using the Gaza
model. Um and Hezbollah has not been
patient this time. Uh during the
previous ceasefire, Hezbollah held their
fire. This time they are not. They are
responding to operations uh that the
Israelis uh carry out including
Hezbollah four operations yesterday that
targeted uh a number of drones, a number
of tanks um in the area uh where Israeli
forces attempted to move forward um from
the ceasefire line. They were targeted.
Of course, Israel has carried out uh a
number of attacks during this period as
well. If we look at the next map, you
can see the way that the Israelis uh
structured this operation. Those five
points that you see there along the
border um at the bottom, that's Israel.
And what you're seeing is five forward
bases that Israel built during the last
ceasefire inside Lebanon. And they used
those bases as forward bases um for this
operation. So they were already inside
Lebanon, which means that 40 plus days,
7 weeks of fighting. Um, in many cases,
the Israelis only made it hundreds of
meters from where they already were. Um,
the goal, according to the Israelis, we
won't get into it too much right now
because uh, we'll see if they're able to
accomplish that, but their goal is to
create another yellow line like in Gaza,
in South Lebanon throughout the
villages. There's currently 55 villages
that the Israeli military said people
are unable to return are not allowed to
return home to. And then we've heard
ministers in Israel talking about how uh
like we heard with Gaza that the goal is
to destroy all of the houses so people
do not have anywhere to return to. And
the way that Israel has been fighting
this battle or uh they spoke with uh
army radio commander spoke with army
radio about their doctrine. Um and the
number four point in their doctrine was
that the directive to Israeli forces was
wherever you identify a threat, engage
but take no risks. So essentially a
doctrine of fear has been what has
animated Israel's uh war in South
Lebanon. Six divisions um are involved
in this including uh reserve divisions.
This is more um it's the same number of
divisions that operated in Gaza at the
beginning of the Gaza war. But as I said
last week, we know that the reserve um
recall of reserve soldiers uh did not uh
return every soldier that uh was
supposed to return like they did in
Gaza. So they had a full complement of
forces in Gaza, but not in Lebanon from
all that we know. Um let's take a look
at the map because you'll see this next
map of Hzbollah engagements. This is
where this is direct confrontations with
Israeli forces and you can see how this
matches up with the previous map where
based on the five uh forward bases. Um
you can see it along the coast in Nakura
along the western coast. Um, and then
you can see Vintage Bale in the central
um, sector there uh, at the bottom of
the map on the right. And then going up
into the Galilee panhandle over the
Hoola Valley uh, is the other uh, main
uh, elements. So they had two divisions
at each of those spots pushing forward.
Um, attempting to redraw the borderline
is what Israel is trying to do here to
create a buffer zone. Um, that is their
intention. We'll follow that as it goes.
Um, let's take a look at the next map
because again it'll show you uh where
their tanks were hit. 188 anti-tank
operations during this stage of the war.
Um, you can see those also match pretty
much with the um direct confrontation
maps. Um, but you can see there's a lot
more anti-tank operations than direct
confrontations because the Israelis
didn't have any interest in direct
confrontations. And we'll we'll see that
as we watch these videos from this week.
They show um they show that pretty
starkly. So 188 anti-tank operations as
shown on that map there. Um let's go to
the first operation. This is an
anti-tank guided missile strike. It's a
pair of guided missile strikes in Canara
uh area in the central sector
um in the south central sector. You can
see there uh an Israeli Merkova tank
crossing in behind that house. We have
footage here from from a distance uh
looks like from the neighboring hilltop,
but you can see the tanks moving through
um the town of uh Alcantara.
And on the edge when it passes back
through this uh house on the far edge of
the screen that you're looking at,
you're going to see it get hit by a
Cornet anti-tank guided missile strike.
something that we saw um all through
particularly the first stage of this war
[snorts] um in after October 7th. Um
there you can see the a zoom in on it uh
again of the hit direct strike. You can
tell by the smoke uh the color of the
smoke. It's different than the smokec
screen smoke which is a a whiter color
when they um they use their exhaust to
create a smoke screen. And now we're
going to see in between here that
targeted tank was obviously at least
damaged, likely destroyed and is going
to be towed uh by another tank that
you're going to see in between those
houses in between the circle there.
You're going to see the first tank uh
coming through and behind it is the
towed disabled tank that has been uh
mission killed at least uh by that uh
anti-tank operation which was one of
two. There's going to be a second
anti-tank operation and indeed a third
one in the same location at the same
time. This gives you another shot of the
towing uh of the disabled tank here. You
know, we get a lot of comments in we got
a lot of people in the comments uh
saying, "Do these tanks get hurt?" Um we
we see them clearly that way on top of
hundreds of Israeli casualties from
inside tanks uh throughout the battle.
Here you're going to see the second tank
be targeted. And a third tank is
targeted uh moments later, although it
is not caught on camera for that one.
And then we have in this next slide a
zoomin that uh Tamara has done to make
it a little bit more clear what we're
looking at. There's the first strike.
You can see that pretty clearly and
pretty obviously. Pretty significant
damage to the tank immediately.
And in through that circle, you'll see
the tank driving in right now to pick up
the destroyed tank. They'll hook it up
and tow it out as we saw in Gaza many,
many times. Often they use uh D9 armored
bulldozers in Gaza, but they are
traveling differently. There's the first
tank pulling. You can see the chain that
it's got and their second tank that was
destroyed being pulled. In Gaza, we saw
them be pulled with multiple D9
bulldozers. Often we saw them lots
pulled with tanks. Um but the D9s don't
work with the tanks in the same way in
Lebanon as they did in Gaza. They worked
in um in units in Gaza together. There
you see the tank being pulled uh through
the neighborhood there in Alcantara.
One of three tanks destroyed during that
operation. Um that operation was on
March 28th. So uh in some cases we're
getting these 2 weeks after. Um let's
look at the next slide. Um this is a
stitch that I put together of three FPV
drone operations. Firsterson view. Uh
that's what FPV is. It means that you
can have a video screen driver um and
you can see the driver sees through this
um and also it makes a video of it. So
you can see um the exact route that the
pilot took and these video these videos
of course were uh made popular in the
battle in the Ukraine [snorts] uh in
Ukraine.
And this you can pretty clearly see that
that is a school that is being used.
Again, all of the um all of the Israeli
tactics from Gaza are being used in
Lebanon. They're using schools. They're
destroying hospitals. They're targeting
paramedics. They're killing children. uh
all of those uh are consistent doctrinal
uh aspects of the Israeli military
fighting these wars as is the one that I
read earlier where they don't want
engagements. They want uh they want to
call in air strikes as soon as they get
engagements and withdraw. They don't
want to stand and fight in South
Lebanon.
You can see the the tank there spotted.
You could see the view of the camera on
these drones circle in and immediately
target that Nom troop carrier there. And
there's one more here. [snorts] Um, and
you can see the difference and the
reason why these drones are useful in
this terrain
um where the there's a large distance to
cover where Israel is able to have the
high ground in some places. is here's
another one on a um on another Nom troop
carrier there
side by side and we've seen as these
have developed um this is from the uh
NAO brigade commander
Colonel Eric Moyel he said that before
the ceasefire we wouldn't dare to stick
our heads out because Hzbollah sends
explosive drones and you can get hit by
anti-tank missiles from long ranges. Um
he said that um that Hezbollah the way
that Hezbollah fight they sent hundreds
of militants to South Lebanon to fight
in the first days um with effective
weapons with explosive drones and
anti-tank missiles dozens a day. The
commander of the Nahul brigade who's
fighting on the western sector um said
to uh army radio. Let's look at number
seven cuz we have a drone dropping
ammunition. This is something we saw
being used in Gaza to um strong effect
as well. You can see it's got
anti-personnel ball bearings on the uh
bottom of the RPG anti-tank warhead.
Underneath you're seeing an artillery
position um linked to the 14th 46th
Division um the 212th Fire Brigade,
213th Fire Brigade. And you can see the
uh Israeli soldiers there on the ground
as the munition hits the ground after
being dropped. So now we're seeing the
capability by Hezbollah to drop the
drone uh to drop the uh anti-tank
missile instead of driving the drone as
a suicide drone. Again, adaptations on
the battlefield that are happening in
real time here with Hezbollah and
finding these artillery positions is
also part of their uh significance
intelligence along this. In the next few
videos, you're going to see that. And
Hasba has built these drones in uh a
very smart way. They've used component
parts that are very resilient to a
supply chain. They're not all prefixed.
They are building these. These are
Hezbollah built drones. They're clean.
They're smart. They're cheap. They're
easy to assemble. They have resilience
um in the products because you can mix
and match the uh component parts.
Undetectable in the supply chain, so you
can't crack down on it. Um and they've
chosen wisely at each one of these
options. I showed you this back uh a
couple episodes ago when I really broke
down the Hezbollah builds on these, but
just to reiterate um they're using
common uh application common appliance
common uh parts that are used in
appliances in common appliances that you
would never be able to detect that they
are being bought in numbers. Um, and the
total builds of these drones for each of
these component parts, the propeller,
the carbon fiber frame, brushless motor,
customized battery array, um, the flight
controller, um, the camera and
transmitter and antenna, all of that,
all put together, you're looking at like
a $200 build for these drones. So, this
has been a really remarkable development
that has happened in this battle. We saw
a couple of times, a handful of times,
uh, drones be quadcopter drones be used,
um, during the first battles after
October 7th. Um, but only a few times, a
handful of times. This time they're
being used um, across sectors. Um, and
they're being used very effectively.
Let's take a look at this next one.
Number eight we're on now.
Um, this is another quadcopter. You can
see the the quadcopter. um propellers in
the front there. Um that gives you an
indication. It's good. I've been calling
them quadcopters to be specific because
Hezbollah of course also has drones.
We've seen that. Here we see a Nom troop
carrier and another development of the
tactical approach hitting the rear of
the vehicle. The weakest spot. We
haven't seen Hezbollah's targeting
documents, but we know from Casam
targeting documents that the rear door
is the target. And in those two storage
containers that you're looking at there
are um are munition storage. So hitting
those um is a prime target. So really
just uh tactical battlefield awareness
just the increase. You can see in this
flight he circles back rather than
diving down immediately on the target
when it's identified. Um, we're seeing
the pilots now circle back and hit the
spot on the vehicle that is the most um
that is the weakest, the most
susceptible to the single RPG warhead
that is being uh fired. And so in this
case, it's an armored troop carrier. So
you have people um you could have as
many as a dozen people uh holed up in
that tank. [snorts] Um let's look at
number nine. This is an uh around
vintage bale. Of course, there was a lot
of fighting around vintage bail in the
last couple of weeks. We're going to see
that fighting in the coming weeks
because, as I've said, we have about a 2
week 10day uh lag between the operations
and the videos. This is a good example
here of him circling back. See, they
they've spotted the target there, the
Nom troop carrier. They fly over top of
it, circle back around, get stable with
the cuz they're carrying underneath.
They're carrying the anti-tank warhead
underneath. So, they're aiming it,
balancing it, coming in low to it, and
again, striking the rear door on a troop
carrier where the cabin is full of
soldiers. So, instead of divebombing
immediately, we're seeing these
developments, and this is happening like
exponentially day overday during this
battle.
Um, number nine, we're going to see them
target uh even more specifically here.
This is in Al Bayada on the western
coast just north of Nakura. You can see
the Mediterranean Sea in the background
there as they come across. Um, and you
can see the way that this tank is tucked
into the building so that people can
exit right into the building without
being exposed. And that is a direct hit
on the commander's hatch. Um, and on the
commander hat is the battlefield
management system that's going to be
targeted. You're going to see at the end
of this video the two places that it's
about to be hit. This will blind the
commanders. There you can see those two
uh and then that is the turret. Um that
is the turret hatch for the commander.
It is the weakest spot uh on the top of
the tank. And so uh another smart hit.
And you can see the way it matches with
what the Nahul brigade commander said
that they um they don't stick their head
up. They don't stick their head up
because Hezbollah is hitting from a
distance um these operations, these
anti-tank operations and anti-personnel
operations using anti-tank guided
missiles and using these drones. And
many of these drones, we've seen crash
drones that show these dream these
drones are running fiber optic cable um
which prevents them from uh electronic
warfare scrambling. So um another
development that we're seeing, they're
running a spool um um they're running a
spool that can be 3D printed. So again,
something that is resilient that can be
done inhouse
um without having a supply chain that
could be shut down. So again, this is
this is just a very sophisticated way to
hit this tank, very uh wellprotected
tank. U people see the tanks in Russia
go up in flames, but these uh Marova
tanks are a lot stronger armor and so
you have to pick your spot, particularly
with the 80 mm anti-tank warhead because
it's not as strong as the say the tandem
yasine 105. So let's look look at let's
take a look at number 10 here. um
because they're also targeting um
electronic warfare stations. This is a
newly established position here um in up
at the top of the Galilee panhandle
inside Lebanon. They established another
one of these positions and intelligence
surveillance and reconnaissance by
Hzbollah is able to pick up these new
installations. And again, we're seeing
not dive bombing immediately, but
setting up the uh warhead here, putting
the drone in the right position to hit.
And then once in the base, as you're
going to see here, they're going to
penetrate the base on the top of this
mountain. And inside the base, they're
not just hitting anything. They're
hitting the nerve center right there,
the electronic warfare nerve center, um,
to knock that out. And that is what
Israel uses for its battle space
management. So these types of things are
critical to the Israeli battle. They put
up these new positions and these new
positions allow them to then uh reach
further into Lebanese territory. And so
targeting these is a major setback,
multi-million dollar losses, um but also
direct battlefield impact because of the
way that these systems are used in uh
Israel's uh overall network uh
connectivity for their troops. Um number
11 that you're going to see them hit an
Elbit uh system here. This is a um a
technical highmobility shelter.
Essentially, it's like a base on wheels.
You're going to see it on the back of a
of a US Hemet here and it's a direct hit
again on that multi-million dollar loss.
This is a mobile command and control
communication system. So again, a
significant loss, a new position. Israel
moves it into the new position and
Hezbollah is immediately on it um and
destroying it and not just hitting it
randomly but hitting the exact um high
high value target inside that position.
You can clearly see um direct hit on
that and with an anti-tank warhead onto
that that shreds that vehicle. That
vehicle has no chance against um an
anti-tank warhead, a high explosive
uh anti-tank warhead.
So, we're seeing
high value targeting uh quality
operations with these quadcopters. We're
seeing these quadcopters released
virtually every day. They're part of
more than 300 drone operations um
throughout this war and dozens of them
have been part of the 188 anti-tank
operations
um that we've seen as well.
And you can see again the camera is
right dead center on the target. And so
that's a hit. You can see that in this
next slide here as the you can see the
helmet and you can see the um the Elbbit
system. So it's another Elbit system
that is being destroyed. Now let's take
a look at the rocket operations that
Hasba has been executing. This is the
map of those operations essentially
covering all of the border area but also
uh some deep into uh into Israel. The
split is about 50/50 between operations.
Um there was 1127 operations inside uh
Israel and,00
inside Lebanon. So split basically right
down the middle. The rocket operations
uh the IDF said that there was 8,000
rockets fired at them. Hasbollah said
that there was 1,400
rocket operations and that's just the
number of individual operations. So you
can see where those match up. Um the
targets are in uh troops behind Israeli
troops that are in the rear um that are
mustering to go into Lebanon. They're
being hit constantly and we can hear um
Israeli chatter about that all the time.
We know that a number of their um
casualties were group soldiers being hit
by artillery and rocket fire. um a
number of the fatalities as well that
the Israelis have been kind of um
keeping under wraps it seems again uh
were from that kind of rocket fire. And
in that map that you're looking at there
uh in the bottom right corner is the
zoom in on uh each of the positions
along the border that I showed you in
that previous map. So um logical rocket
operations that are happening across all
sectors across all types of rocket
munitions. So everybody is involved in
this battle and that's why you're seeing
the tempo of operations be higher than
anything that we um have ever seen
before from Hezbollah and Naim Kasam the
secretary general said they said this is
an existential war. We've seen the
fighters say it's an existential war
while they're on the front lines
fighting and that is how Hezbollah has
treated this operation. They're also
treating this ceasefire as um whatever
Israel does they respond to. They're not
being um patient with this ceasefire
like they were with the last one. And
Hezbollah has been able to carry out
2,200 operations um averaging about 50 a
day with peak of 98 and many days over
90 uh during this operation. Um so let's
take a look at a Hasba field gun
operation because these were remarkable.
I showed you these a couple shows ago.
Um, but these are effectively these are
World War II field guns that we're
seeing in effect. Um, you know, maybe
they're built a little bit after World
War II, but they are uh from that
vintage uh of weapon. And we see them
here with a buried launching site. Um,
so they've got an underground uh
artillery placement here for a towed
field gun, 130 mm towed field gun. You
can see the size of the shell that's
being loaded. You can see how many guys
it takes to operate this. We're looking
at a picture of Nasala on the side as
always. Um, and we're seeing this long
uh shot, like a single shot that we uh
get to really see what goes on in these
operations. I talked about that last
week. um that they're giving the
fighters cameras that didn't previously
have cameras um rather than having um
formal military media um operatives with
the cameras like we saw in Gaza um we're
seeing a lot more of um cameras being
given to the fighters here and you can
see in this underground launch site very
difficult to track for counter battery
fire um because they're underground and
we saw earlier the barrel raise up from
the uh underground ground as well. So,
across all sectors, across all
capabilities, this is one of 184
artillery operations. Uh, and it gives
you an idea of what the other 183 looked
like, how many guys it takes um to
operate these. And I mean, a field gun
like this is a very it's a very useful
weapon. You can see there from the
underground firing position that you
can't you can barely see uh where the
launch site is when you're standing
beside it. Um, so it's very useful and
they were using these um as troops
mustered ready to go into a town and you
fire these field guns from relatively
short distances. They're uh roughly uh
accurate enough. Um, and they're very
useful. So, it was really interesting to
see these that that's a 130 mm M46 field
gun for those keeping track at home. Um,
let's look at 15 because we got more of
these fatty launchers and we w the whole
trip with the fellas in the car on their
way. This is something we didn't used to
get at all and now we get at almost
every video. They arrive at the site of
the launcher. It's a launch truck. It's
truck mounted launcher. You can we're
looking here at no cab because it has
previously been hit um at least once,
maybe multiple times. Completely
destroyed the cab, but Hzbollah has
rebuilt it. and they're showing us that
now you can see them driving here with
no front windshield with no roof uh with
a couple of pictures of Nasala and Naim
Kasum
um and Kamina and you can see their
quads there that they have made famous
in South Lebanon driving this truck to
the site of the launch. Here they are
arriving. victory signs by the driver
who you can see his entire body cuz
there's no windshield, there's no roof
uh on this launcher. And these guys
while they're talking they're making fun
of Netanyahu there because Netanyahu the
day before this operation had come out
and said, "Oh, we have destroyed 80% of
their launchers." And so these guys are
laughing back and forth amongst
themselves just saying like, "Uh, is
this does this launcher count as one
that Netanyahu hit?" Now they're showing
a picture of NRAA. There's the fighters
all celebrating before they launch. And
it's a perfectly effective FOD launcher.
The FOD is an 80 kg warhead, 70 km um
range for the FOD 1. Not sure if this is
a FOD 1 or a FOD 2. Um the FOD 2 is 170
kilos and 100 km range. We can see that
in the next two pictures, too. Um you
can see the cab, the here, this is the
one with the cab, the two fighters faces
are blurred. One's carrying a flag.
One's carrying Nesala's picture. Uh, and
they're arriving to the site in a truck
with no front window, no side doors, and
no roof. Um, the next slide, you can see
that same truck set up to launch. And
you can see the cab uh barely exists on
the front of that. Uh, and these are
longer range uh rockets built by
Hezbollah. We often see these rockets
used to target the interior. Um, we see
this used against Gileo a lot, which is
where the Mossad base and unit 8200 base
is in Tel Aviv. So, they're firing these
um on Tel Aviv a lot of times. If this
is behind the Latani River, they're
using this to fire on military bases in
Hifa at the naval port. Um, and there's
one more photo like this that's that
shows the full launch uh glory. It's
remarkable operation. And one of these
days when the war is over, I'm going to
uh break down some of these VOD videos
because they are really remarkable in
the way that the fighters have been able
to uh keep them in the battle despite
them being targeted uh numerous times.
And of course, just for this last map, I
want to just show you what uh Israel's
targets really were and what they always
are. This is from the Lebanese Ministry
of Health. um since the beginning of the
aggression as I said 2294
martyrs 7544
wounded um 98 paramedics killed 356
paramedics wounded um targeting health
sector 116 ambulances destroyed 25
hospitals destroyed 25 clinics destroyed
six hospitals destroyed um it's just
remarkable uh remarkable savagery
targeting civilians of course last
night. They also uh targeted and killed
um al Akbar journalist Amal Khalil and
she was pursued and pinned down and
ultimately killed uh by the Israelis.
They didn't allow anyone in to um to
rescue the injured at the time they were
injured. She was with her colleague
Zanab Faraj who was ser severely
wounded. Um, the Red Crescent eventually
after hours got in to save Zanab and she
was able to be rescued. Um, only return
hours later to find Amal's body in the
rubble. Um, Amal was previously
threatened by messages from the IDF that
said that if she didn't leave Lebanon um
that she needed to leave Lebanon if she
wanted to keep her head attached to her
body. So that's that's Israel for you.
targeting children, hospitals, uh,
schools, uh, paramedics and journalists,
uh, for simply doing their job. Um, and
I wanted to bring that, of course,
because, uh, behind all the military
analysis is often just these straight up
attacks on civilians that the Israelis
are so famous for. So, this has been the
resistance report for day 930
since uh Kasam's October 7th raid that
dismantled the Gaza division in minutes
um and the subsequent genocide in Gaza.
>> [music]
>> Hey.